From hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselman. It's
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number four 13 recorded live
Thursday, April 27th, 2014. This episode of
Hansel minutes is brought to
you by a Tellerik offering
the best in developer tools
and support online@terikdotcomandbyfranklins.net makers of
gesture pack a powerful gesture,
recording and recognition system for
Microsoft connect for windows developers
details at gesture, pak.com. In
this episode, Scott talks to
Katherine Moss of line software tech
about how she uses her
computer and her phone. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman. This
is another episode of Hansel
minutes, and I'm chatting with
Catherine Moss. She's an it professional.
And you also happen to
be blind, is that correct?
Yes, that's right. Are you,
are you totally blind or
is that an okay question
to ask? It's totally fine.
I'm actually, I'm blind, like
totally blind. As far as
being able to read print
goes, I can't, I have
to rely completely on, you
know, screen reading software to
access any sort of, you
know, computer system or anything
like that. But I do
have, you know, some color
recognition, some, you know, shape
recognition, and I can also
detect light and darkness as
well. So you can go
into a room and you
can say, Oh, lights are
out. Absolutely. And I can
also see if there's a
bunch of people in the
room usually too. Cause I
can, I can, like I
said, I know, I know
most shapes like, like, so
for instance, like with people
I can see people's shapes,
but I would never be
able to see their facial
expressions. I see. And if
I gave you like a
coupon, could you tell me
when it was expiring? Unless
not, unless I scanned it
into a computer and was
able to read it using
text to speech software? Unfortunately.
No. Okay. I was, I
don't, I haven't talked about
it a whole lot, but
I had LASIK surgery and
before I had my eyes
zapped, I was negative 11
diopters, which was 20 1600.
So I had big thick
glasses, big, big, big, like
big 1980s glass glasses, not
before we had plastic and
polymer lenses and stuff. So
I've hit this bump in
my nose from wearing glasses
for 20 years. And I,
so I had, I couldn't
walk without my glasses. Like
I could see colors, but
I would, I would trip
over stuff. I couldn't see
my feet in the, in
the shower. And so I
had a little bit of
a, of a background in
like I was the most
blind kid in school. And
then when I got, when
I got LASIK, of course,
I got to put all
that behind me, but I
still tried to think about
accessibility. And when I went
to work in banking, I,
I, my job was one
of my jobs was to
think about this five Oh
eight accessibility and trying to
make sure that our websites
were accessible with screen readers.
And you use a screen
reader. Yes, I do. W
which one do you use
is jaws? I use quite
a few of them. I
use jaws. I actually have,
I have actually have NBDA
non-visual desktop access loaded right
now, which is an open
source Python screenwriter, which is
pretty, pretty cool. It works
with Skype natively. It doesn't
need any, any scripts or
add ons or anything, which
is very rare because Skype
is one of those, one
of those applications that a
lot of screenwriters need a
lot of modifications to work
with, which is interesting. And
I also use window eyes,
which is wonderful because it
allows you to create scripts
and add ons in any
language. And I don't have
that loaded on my computer
at the moment. I need
to get it. And I
also use system access, which
is great for a lot
of things. In fact, they
actually touch a lot of
applications that a lot of
the other screenwriters don't even
bother with like a lot
of the more enterprise and
corporate level applications that the
other simply just don't care
about, which is fantastic. So
you're saying that there's no
like canonical screen reader, like
there's not like the ultimate
screen reader, like you're, you're
always exploring and experimenting and
if a new one comes
out, you'll try that and
see if Yes. Yes. I
always have to. And sometimes
I have to switch screen
readers multiple times within an
application, depending on like what's
going on and depending on
whether it's behaving itself, because
sometimes it just decides, Oh,
I'm not going to behave
today. So I'm just going
to give you a hard
time. And like, that was
happening to me earlier with
a Firefox, I was trying
to load a website and
I was using, or I
was on a web webpage
and I switched from NBDA
to jaws and jaws got
all confused. And for whatever
reason, jaws was only reading
the links. It wouldn't allow
me to see the text
between the links and to
navigate between the headings and
things. So I had to
switch back because jaws was
just being a pain at
that point, which it does
sometimes. And it seems like
it's okay to say, see,
and look at this and
stuff like that. There's just,
you're using, I mean, you're
seeing it, you're seeing it
in your ways, Right? Absolutely.
Yeah. Does, this is the
resolution of the screen matter
to you because even though
you can't see it, I
assume that screen real estate
is still significant. Like if
the webpage was at 800
by 600, you wouldn't be
able to see the text
off to the right of
the, can the reader tell
The screen reader doesn't care,
but with the amount of
vision that I have, I
could definitely tell because I
was actually doing that the
other day I was playing
with my resolution because I
was bored and I have
a 1366 by seven 68
display. So I moved it
down to 800 times, 600
just to be, you know,
just to be goofy. Cause
I was, I was bored
and it, it looked so
weird. I was like, Oh
my gosh, I have to
change this back Because it
looks weird from a screen
reader perspective. No, from the
perspective of the amount of
vision that I have, it
looked, it looked really weird.
Like for instance, I opened
the Microsoft office 2013. I
opened up Microsoft word 2013,
no matter how much I
maximize the thing, I could
not get that document to
cover the entire page. Yeah.
Yeah. 800 by 600 is
unacceptable. I don't think any
app works at that anymore.
Nope. Yeah. We'll find, we'll
find ourselves in situations. We,
the, the, the, the sighted
we'll find ourself in situations
at low resolutions where we'll
bring a dialog box up
and then like, okay. And
cancel is off the bottom
of the screen. And there's
just simply no way to
push the button because it's
just not, not, it's not
on the screen anymore. Yeah.
The cool thing about Skinner
does is they can somehow
get past that. Like they
do it different, you know,
some of them actually have
a video drivers like jaws
and window wise actually have
a video driver. So actually
the screen resolution and the
display and stuff, in some
instances that actually does matter.
It really depends on the
way the screen reader gets
the information, whether it uses
an offscreen model, which jaws
uses or whether I'm not
exactly sure how, when do
I does it, but I
know that windows has a
display driver and yeah, that
can actually cause interesting results
when installing that the display
driver. Cause if it's not
installed correctly, you can actually
make a system with window
eyes on it. Get a
nice blue screen of death.
That startup, that acts What
happens when a blue screen
of death happens. Do you
know that it's happened? You
have to everything. I mean,
you said you have some
color recognition. So there's things
that things go blue and
you know, you're screwed. They
do. I can usually see
it. And I know, wait,
hold on. I think I
have to restart this. And
usually when it happens, usually,
usually it'll happen right in
the middle of when my
screener is starting, trying to
say something. So what happens
is it gets stuck on
what it was trying to
say, like never complete. So
the minute my screwdriver starts
doing that, I know, Oh,
darn I should take care
of this blue screen of
death. So you have, if
you're sitting in front of
your monitor and I'm trying
to visualize this, I'm seeing
in front of my monitor
right now. And the, the
background is orange. Cause that's,
that's the color that I've
got up today. I assume
that you could have the
sense. You can see the
orange penis in a jet
in a general. I use
my desktop backgrounds all the
time, But I've also got
this Skype window up in
the middle of the screen
with your name on it,
you would not be able
to see your name. You
might, would you be able
to see the window? Oh
yes. And I could tell
because I can, I can
tell like, because I can
see the color, the color
patterns of the window and
the looks of the window,
but you're right. I, I
wouldn't be able to read
any of the texts in
the window, but the cool
thing is that's where screener
just come into play. Cause
they, they read the text
for you. So you don't
have to worry about it,
which is awesome. Now, when
sometimes when a sighted person
bumps into like windows, narrator
or something like that, that's
their really their only experience
with a screen reader. And
it's, it's all very like
a Skype window forefront. It's
very slow and kind of
very marching. But when I've
seen a re blind people
who are really good at
running their computers, I can't
even tell what the screen
are saying. It's a screen.
Exactly. Because we tend to
have it up pretty fast.
It's it's quite funny. I
get that all the time.
I get it. It's like,
people are like, wow, what
was that saying? I'm like,
Oh, I'm probably going to
have to slow this down
for you guys. Aren't I
like that happened to me
back in December when I
had a, a, a presentation
about screenwriters where I did
a few demos for the
Boston network users group, and
everybody was really appreciative of
it, which I thought was,
I thought it was wonderful.
But at first I was,
I kind of forgot to
slow it down. And everybody's
like, and everyone's like, yeah,
can you slow it down
a little bit? I was
like, Oh, I forgot to
do that. Didn't I, That
was interesting. They couldn't see
it Right. They couldn't really
understand what, what it was
saying. But the cool thing
is I had my computer
connected to the projector because
a lot of the things
I was showing was a
lot of times when a
screen reader is reading something
that may not be actually
what's showing on, on the
screen to, to the site
of person who's looking at
it. Hence when sighted, hence
when the sighted or helping
the blind, it's often easier
just to disable the screen
reader because it can get
in the sighted person's way.
If the right settings aren't
set to on which a
lot of times we don't
usually turn them on by
default, especially. Well, it depends
like with NBDA I have
it turned on like, does
this thing called mouse tracking,
which essentially means that the,
that is cursor, that it,
it uses to visualize the
screen is following the cursor
that we see. Okay. So
let me see if I
understand this correctly from a,
from a sighted person's perspective,
there's basically two focal points
on, on a, on a
computer. There's the there's well,
there's where the mouse is
moving right now. And then
there's the window that has
focus. And then possibly within
that window, the text box
that has focused, or there's
a keyboard focal point and
a mouse focal point. You're
saying that the screen reader
also has a focal point.
Yes. And a lot of
times, like I said, depending
on which setting is enabled,
sometimes the screener just focal
point does not match the
mouse focal points. So therefore
a sighted person, you know,
a blind person saying, Hey,
Oh, can you tell me
what this says? Because for
whatever reason, my screener is
not reading it. You might
get a response. Wait, where
are you? I can't see
it. And that's because the,
and that's because it's not
like the two of them
that they're not following each
other Right now. I've got
Skype in the front, on
my machine and then behind
it. But slightly obscured is
a call burner that I
use to record my shows
you, because you're exploring the
visual tree of the wind.
And when we call the
visual tree, it's like the,
the buttons and the windows
and the tabs you can
wander around and look at
coal burner, even though it's
visually covered the structure's there.
So your screen reader could
be exploring that interface, even
though it's not necessarily visible
to me, it could be.
Yep. Ah, interesting Happens. That
happens a lot. When windows
get in your way, like
you're doing something and you're,
you're in the, in the
zone and then something pops
up and takes focus away.
Can it, Does that happen
sometimes? And it can actually
be very annoying, but depending
on how important it is,
I can usually just either,
you know, use all Alta
four to dismiss it. Or
if it's something important, you
know, I'll, I'll acknowledge it
obviously, but it kind of
depends on, you know, what's
going on, but that does
happen. There's a joke amongst
most technical windows users that
you'll be doing something like
in word or notepad, you're
typing some pros. And then
just as your hand is
about to come down to
press enter the windows update,
restart thing pops up and
it's too late. It's too
late, right. Your hand is
going down, it's going to
push enter. I assume that
that kind of stuff can
happen to you. Or windows
is like, we're restarting right
now. And you have no
choice Me all the time.
Yeah. And usually I'm like,
Oh, you've gotta be kidding.
And do you see it
coming? Or is it, is
it like this a screen
reader notice? Or what happened?
You just, you just reboot.
And you're like, I don't
know what happened there. No,
it usually, I mean, you
know, it'll, it'll, it'll tell
me, like, it'll usually give
me the option to, you
know, postpone or, you know,
or restart. And depending on
what I'm doing, I usually
leave myself enough time to
like, save my file. And
then, you know, I'm very
careful cause I try, I
try not to be like,
I try not to be,
you know, click happy and
click on the wrong thing.
And then, and then, you
know, lose stuff. But some
occasionally that happens How often,
and I appreciate you doing
this by the way, this
is like, this is like
a Reddit AMA it's like
ask me anything. This is
very fascinating. I think to
me, how often do you
get, how often do you
get stuck where, you know,
the, the, the, the system
is in a state where
there's, and this happens to
all of us. This happens
to the best of us.
I cited or not. I
was in a state yesterday
where there was some in
the front and I don't,
I don't know. I couldn't
quite get to it or
couldn't see it, or was
invisible, but, you know, keyboard
focus was stuck and I
don't know what state the
machines in. And I'm just
no mind, no, no amount
of Elta flooring or all
tabbing is going to get
me out of that. And
I couldn't get the task
manager up. So it was
hard reboot. How often does
that happen? Well, Lilly, since
I installed a bunch of
stuff on this windows seven
laptop, it's been happening to
me every time I click
the wrong thing in the
TA, every time I click
on a certain thing in
the, in the task bar.
Cause what happens is, but
yeah, it does happen like
this morning. For instance, I
went up here to check
email. I essentially had to
hard restart every, you know,
right when I got in
here because all of a
sudden, all I could, the
only feedback I get from
my screen reader was desktop
window. So like that's the
only window I could see,
but like, yeah, I couldn't
get to my task bar.
I couldn't get task manager
up. I couldn't get anything
up. I'm like, I'm like,
you're kidding me. And I
have no idea like, like
what even caused. But yeah,
that, that, that happens to
me quite a bit. Funnily
enough, it didn't happen as
much when I had windows
age. So Do you think
that that's, and this is
just from a user's perspective,
do you think as a
user that this is the
operating system's fault or do
you know, as you obviously
are someone who installs crazy
stuff to try it out,
that you may be installed
some piece of software that's
not blind friendly. Yeah. I
think it has to do
with this one because it
happens particularly when I click
on this, this one icon
in the task bar, which
I need to, I need
to get rid of it
anyway, because it was actually
the wrong tool for the
job when I originally installed
it. But I think so
I think for mainly for
me, it's caused by one
particular application that, that when
you like, so for instance,
to get to the task
bar notifications, like I can,
I can hit the extended
insert key and F 11
at the same time and
it'll bring up a list
of those notifications and then
it'll let me press enter
on them to effectively right.
Click on them. I can
also, yeah, it's not going
to work unless you have
either jaws system access or
when, or I'm sorry. And
NBDA window wise is a
different one. When do I
use this extended insert S
to perform the same thing.
Okay. So you have hot
keys too. Like I can
get down into the, from
a keyboard perspective, I can
get down into the task
bar and the system tray
tab and stuff, but I
don't have a hot key
to get down there and
you do No. Yeah, yeah,
we do. That's the one
thing. And also on the
internet, we have hot keys.
Like we can hit H
to navigate between headings or
to navigate between like list
items and, or we can
do extended insert key or
a capsule key F seven
to bring up either a
list of links or a
list of different elements. Like
NBDA and window eyes are
really in that respect where
they have, like, you can
bring up a list of
like all the elements on
the page and then you
can, That's really interesting. What
kind of pages do you
click them? What kind of
pages do you dislike? Like,
we, we hate Buzzfeed right
now because they'll take something
like a list, like, you
know, top 10 things you
need to know about protein.
And then instead of just
putting it in a list,
the page is just filled
with ads and they'll split
those top 10 things across
10 pages. Ugh, good. Golly.
I hate it. When people
do that, like you gotta,
you gotta click all around
there and then, Oh. And
then half the time, the
link isn't labeled properly in
order for the screen reader
to figure it out. So
it'll just say like link
or it'll say like, or
it'll say like either the
image or even worse as
is the case for the
asp.net content management system, DNN,
it will say the base
64 encoding. Oh my God.
And it reads it and
it's like, you gotta be
kidding me. It's so it's
like, you have to know
which string of numbers am
I supposed to click on.
And hopefully, hopefully the DNN
folks are going to try
to fix that because my
S because I'm actually going
to be creating a website
based off of that pretty
soon, hopefully, and yeah, totally
issues aside with it. But
those are the pages that
I can't stand. I don't
essentially what I don't. Oh.
And another thing is I
don't like pure JavaScript. That
was my next question. That
was my next question. Do
you like the Gmail sites
and these kinds of single
page application sites that are
largely JavaScript drives me crazy,
but that's the future, right?
These single page apps. So
what are we doing wrong
with? Those Things are not
being labeled properly. That's the
main issue. And also certain
events also there's certain, well,
you guys are lucky because
you don't really have to
worry about it, but it's
these other companies, like I
said, you know, like, like
Google, like, you know, like
DNN, they have issues where
done a nuke, right. Where
they have a lot of
stuff on the page, and
then you go to click
on it, but it's not
like it's not labeled where
you can easily get to
it. And another problem. So,
yeah. So like, if you
actually, I can think of
an issue where I, I
actually helped these guys fix
this. You've heard of the
blog engine called blog engine.net,
right? Sure. That's Matt's Christianson's
system. He works with us.
I love, I love that
blog. And especially when I
move it well, because my
website used to be using
blogging. And, but the problem
is there was too much
other stuff with it that
I had to get rid
of the whole front. And
besides that whole framework is
dead anyway. But the, but
the blog engine, I had
to have them fix something
because I would go to,
I forget what it was
like. It was a settings
dialogue, like where you could
go to edit, say like
a post that you made.
Like if you realize you
made a mistake, go back
and edit it. Well, I
would use the enter key
as, as a double click,
or I can also simulate
a real double click using
a screen using one of
my screener to commands. Well,
because like for jaws caps
lock key, plus the number
eight, or there's also a
way to do it on
the number pad, but I
don't remember what it is.
I'd have to look it
up that would usually simulate
a double click on the,
on the link. Well, with
blog engine that wasn't working
and it was actually determined.
And that, again, that's the
same with DotNetNuke as well.
There, it was actually determined
that carelessly implemented JavaScript was
at fault. So how important
is it for us to,
and what should we, as
sighted people do to like,
fix this? Like I know
that I always try to
fill out the alt tags
on my, on my images.
Yes. That's super important. Yes.
That's super important. And you
also have to make sure
that when you're programming, you
know, either websites or frameworks
that all of the key
press events are implemented in,
that's what actually, that's what
they forgot in blog engine.
They didn't, I think, you
know, you're, you're a done
on framework guy. So, so
remind me if the sacker,
cause I haven't really, I
haven't really picked at coding
in ages. I'd love to
go back to it. But
one of the things that
I learned, I think it
was like, the method is
like on key. Like I
think it's called like on
key press or on key
something yeah. Was on key
down on key up things
like that. Yeah. Right. Those
methods were not being implemented
in that particular thing. And
they had to fix it.
Although I don't really understand
how JavaScript comes into asp.net
and what that really had
to do with it. But
whatever it was, it was
definitely, it was JavaScript's fault.
Which again, doesn't really make
a lot of sense to
me. I think I'm what
I'm hearing you say though.
And I'm putting in the
context of, of, of touch
where I know that I'll
visit a site and I'll
be able to click on
it or I can use
tab and hit enter and
that's the same thing, but
then I might, I might
try using my touchscreen and
touching it and it doesn't
work. And what I'm hearing
you say is that screen
reader input is yet another
way that we need to
be testing. And sometimes the
way the screen reader presses
the button isn't working. Yes.
So, so essentially what happens
is on these websites pressing
enter and a double left
click are not considered the
same. Hmm. Pressing enter in
a double click or not
the same thing. And this
is just likely due to
just not testing. It sounds
Right. Yes. So people just
not very familiar with it.
Should we hire blind testers
or, I mean, what can
we do? I don't think
just goofing around. Oh my
gosh. Yes. That would be
a fantastic thing to do.
And especially because you have
a lot of applications in
the enterprise world, you know,
I'm sorry to say, but
just, aren't really up to
accessibility part, like for instance,
system center, configuration, you know,
system center, what is it?
2012 or two now? Yeah.
2012. R two is one
of them. And I don't
remember you might've. I think
I mentioned that on Twitter
where there was a blind
guy and somebody actually posted
on a message board, you
know, on behalf of this
gentleman and then he linked
to the regular post and
the, to the post on,
I think it was tech
net. And essentially this gentlemen
essentially said, you know, quote
unquote, thank you, Microsoft for
making my job impossible. Because
system center like 2007 was
really good, but 2012 I've
heard is just really, really,
really bad person's perspective. Yes.
Like there's not a lot
of feedback presented by screeners.
In fact, you'll see, I
did a beta it's on
my YouTube channel. I did
a beta of team foundation
server. Well, it was team
foundation server 2011 when it
was in beta, but, and
there was some huge issues
with that. Like for instance,
I was trying to set
it up just to try
to like to try to
demo it. And when it
happened is a lot of
the radio buttons, like typically
I'm hearing your computer talking
in the background, what's it
what's going on in my
iPhone. Oh, your iPhone is
talking. So you got a
text message. No, it was
actually, it was a Facebook
alert. That's awesome. I want
to, I want to come
back to that cause you're
cause you have an iPhone,
which is touchscreen, which is
awesome. Yeah. So yeah, so
essentially what was happening is
I was trying to set
up, you know, TFS, I
think it was on my,
yeah, it was on my
older computer. And for whatever
reason, I would try to
click, you know, check the
various radio buttons and typically,
you know, up and down
arrow and then you can
hit space to select the
different radio buttons. Like if
you want it checked what's
happening is I would use
the down arrow to try
to see, like there was
one radio button that would
read and then I would
use the down arrow to
see what the other radio
button was. And then sure
enough, I got thrown down
into an unlabeled edit field.
I didn't know where I
was at. I'm lying. Wow.
That's Really interesting. And unlabeled
edit field. So I did
this blog post recently about
dark UX patterns. And this
is like, when you go
to like download.com and you
download some utility that you
really need, even though, you
know, you shouldn't be doing
it. And then the next
thing you know, their installation
system has installed toolbars and
spyware, looking at that post
the other day, I put
notes by the way. And
all of the all tags.
I don't know if you
saw them. Yeah. I see
those. And, and, and I
really appreciate that because Yes,
I will. I will leave
you as I'll leave you
a secret message in one
soon for 30 or 40
blind people who visit my
site will be like, Oh,
Hanselman. And, and I was
thinking about that. Like, that
must be like, it's frustrating
if, I mean, if my
sighted mom, can't not install
evil toolbars, you could find
yourself in a really nasty
situation. If you missed a
single checkbox, I have I've
done it. Like I installed
something. Oh, it was, it
was a send space download.
I was trying to download
an MP three file from
this website that I go
to, it's called blind mice
Mart. And they have a
movie vault where they, where
they extract the audio from
descriptive videos and they let
you download them for free.
I mean, I re I
really wish they had like
a paid subscription where you
could get the visuals, but
anyway, that's not really important.
So I went to download
this file and, you know,
sun space, if you don't
check the box, it'll say
all these extra offers. And
then sure enough, I, I
finished downloading the movie and
then sure enough, I turned
my computer on and I
had all these things popping
up at me. I'm like,
what is this? And then
I was like, and then
I was like, Oh, darn
I didn't uncheck that box.
Did I? And then, and
then you have to go
just like we do and
just dig, dig it out,
right? Yes. Well, I think,
I think I used Malwarebytes
to get most of it
because I was a lazy
button. I didn't feel like
digging it out myself, what
a mess. And I know
really Let's, let's, let's end
by talking about your, your
iPhone. It's the iPhone, as,
as a nondescript black slate
seems to be like the
least aligned, friendly thing. I
mean, as an ignorant sighted
person, I'm thinking, Oh, she's
got a Blackberry, you know,
I don't know, I'm an
idiot, but I'm hearing from
everyone that that's just a
fantastic, fantastic device for the,
for the blind. Oh, it's
awesome. And I really wish,
you know, and I, and
I really wish I could
say the same for the
Nokia Lumia, but unfortunately, due
to windows, phone eight, not
having the ability to load
like sooner is like jaws
and stuff. You know, that's
not. So the built in
screen reader that is on
this voiceover on the iPhone
is great. Oh, it's wonderful.
It's essentially, it's almost as
powerful as like jaws or
one of the, or one
of the windows. Hmm. And
what's great about it. Is
it just because it lets
you see everything? Oh yes.
It typically, I mean, occasionally
you get an inaccessible application
and again, you know, the
same rules apply. Like if
the, I mean there may
be accessibility in a certain
framework, but if it's not
brought to the forefront, then
it's not, it's not going
to be acknowledged. And that's
the problem with a lot
of stuff is it's not
going to be acknowledged. Do
you use the iPhone kind
of ha without looking at
it? Oh yes. Well, I
mean, I believe in her,
I always have the display
on because if I, you
know, never had any light
or anything, you know, my
eyes wouldn't be stimulated. So
I a lot, see a
lot of blind people use
the screen curtain and they
turn it off so that
people can't look at their
display and stuff. I don't,
I don't bother with that.
Well, because I mean, number
one, I don't really care
if somebody sees me because
you know, like, like here's
people, You don't usually, I
mean, sighted people don't usually
get close enough to other
side of people to be
creeping around looking at their
phones. I presume that they
don't give that to you
either. No, no. And that's
what I'm saying. Like some
friends of mine are very
picky about that. They think
that sighted people will do
that. And so they use
the screen curtain, but I
mean the screen curtain I'll
use it like to save
battery, but that's more why
I use it. Cause it
does shut the display off
Curtain is a feature of
voiceover. That just basically he
does exactly that it makes
it black and you can't
say it makes it black.
Right. Okay. And then I
understood that there's also haptic
feedback. So you can basically
hold your finger on the
screen and then kind of
move your thumb around and
it'll tell you what you're
looking at as you move
your thoughts. Can you do
that? Would you mind holding
the phone up to your,
to your mic and just
kind of exploring the home
screen? Oh, let me get
it six minutes ago. Hold
on. Let's unblock my phone
here. Hold on. Stupid iOS
seven thing where it always
asks you, if you want
to trust this computer every
single time. It's crazy. It's
plugged into your computer. Yeah.
So we have the calendar
now. Now of course you
can, you can also click
and you can also like,
so if you saw, I'm
gonna, I'm going to double
tap this and hold this
and then you can Moving
calendar, but it went really
fast. Oops. Oh shoot. Yeah.
So I was in another,
I did that. That yeah.
No it wasn't you. It
was, it was me not
really paying attention to where
my finger was. So that's
essentially how that works. So,
so it'll tell you, like,
if you're dragging things around
to move them, like if
you're making folders, it will
tell you like, you know,
which, which app you're on
like that. And then, and
then I can move pages.
It will. So like I
just moved it from page
one to page two and
then you can just swipe
up on the, the, the,
the pages toddler thing, and
then whoops. No that, Oh,
that's because I'm not in
the right place. So there's,
so there's a bunch of
stuff that I have in
here, a game and or
why it's going so fast.
It is. And unfortunately I
cannot remember how to slow.
Well, that's okay. That's okay.
This is fascinating though. And
I think the thing that
I'm taking away though, is
that it is simply the
will to make this accessible.
That is, that is preventing
people from doing it. I
mean, there's just no excuse
other than just to do
it. And if you put
an application out there, whether
it be a full blown
windows app or whether it
be a webpage and you
do nothing, you've got about
a 50 50 chance that
it's going to suck. Exactly.
And may I tell you
that sometimes, you know, I
really wonder, like I upgraded
part of my main reason
for upgrading to windows eight
and 8.1 and 8.1 did
an interesting thing with my
screen reduce, but we can,
I can either tell you
about that some other time,
but I don't know. It
was interesting because I had
said to myself, Oh my
gosh, you know, I'm going
to have a lot of
fun. I'm going to get
into this whole, you know,
modern app type thing. And
now I'm sitting here mincing
my words instead of like
having a good time and
accepting everything as an app,
I'm sitting here, mincing my
words, lecturing, you know, mincing
words, lecturing people on the
difference between app and application,
which I still think there
truly is. Like, I don't
call it for instance, I
don't call Microsoft word 2013
an app personally. But then,
but again, that could be,
Yeah, well that that's, that's,
that's semantic though, but it
is what is it about
windows eight? That is a
step back from, from a
blind perspective Because the new
modern interface, nobody except for,
you know, except for Microsoft,
the only, the only modern
apps that I can really
use in windows eight are
the Microsoft ones. Like for
instance, the sky app. Yeah.
I absolutely love it. It's
absolutely beautiful Skype. I would
love it if all the
buttons were labeled properly, although
I've heard a rumor that
they actually made that accessible,
Full screen Skype app. Yeah.
Well, well, well from a
sighted perspective, the SkyDrive app
and Skype app, they look
pretty much the same. They
just didn't go that extra
mile. They didn't label, they
didn't label buttons. So you're
sitting on a button with
no idea what it is.
Right. Exactly. Okay. See, this
is, we're going to make
sure that people who are,
who work on those things,
hear this and are appropriately
shamed into fixing it. And
the other thing too is,
you know, and the other
thing about the, the whole,
the whole modern interface thing
is it seems like there's
not a lot of, like,
it seems like programs can't
be as involved as their,
their desktop counterparts. Like for
instance, I don't ever see
a modernized version of the
Microsoft SQL server management studio.
Oh. And that's another one
that doesn't work too well
a hundred years, by the
way. I think that, I
think that, that the people
that are making these, the
people that are making these
apps are, are putting them
out without ever, ever putting
it in the hands of
a blind person to even
consider that it might not
work. And then when I
go to the connect site
to report these issues, half
the time what ends up
happening is they're like, Oh,
I'm sorry, but I don't
really know. We don't know
what you're talking about. Or
I'll never forget when I
tried to report an issue
with the installation of SQL
server, I believe it was.
And in fact, that's still
an issue. Well, we all
think that sucks actually. That's
Yeah. The, the installation of
it. Cause half of it's
not read properly. It's like,
I just use the command
line because it's so much
easier. And so, and they're
like, Oh yeah, no, that,
that bug was fixed since
2008. I'm like, I'm sorry,
it's still there. So it's,
you've got your blog. You
said you also had a
YouTube channel on Yes, I,
my YouTube channel is currently
up. My website at the
moment is not up at
the moment because it's being
rebuilt under what's under DNN,
but what is your YouTube
channel? Oh, my YouTube channel
is youtube.com/user/the Chrome Buster. C
H R O M E
B U S T E
R. I will put these
in, I will put all
of these in the show
notes. I'll that'd be wonderful.
Absolutely. Absolutely. Well, this has
been just a joy. Thank
you so much for, for
sharing all of this with,
with us. I think that
it's, it's a world that
we don't usually see no
pun intended. And as such
though, we forget that when
people are on the internet
and they, they may be
blind or deaf, or they
may not, they may have,
they have and any number
of different, the things that
make them unique. And if
you don't address those, those
things with real basic stuff,
I mean, marking your all
tags, making sure that that
anchors are labeled, you're locking
the internet off to them.
Aren't you you're making it.
So they simply can't participate.
That's very true. Yeah. That's
about a, that's about as
accurate as you can get.
So I, I'm going to
continue to think about you
when I write my blog
posts, when I write my
applications and I hope that
other people do and thanks
again for chatting with us
today. Oh, no problem. This
has been another episode of
Hanselminutes and we'll see you
again next week. .